CHAPTER VI OF THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST.
MATTHEW, KING JAMES' VERSION.
THIS LIBERVOX RECORDING IS IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN.
RECORDING BY MICHAEL PACKARD.
Take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them, otherwise ye have
no reward of your Father which is in heaven.
Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee as the hypocrites
do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men, verily I say unto
you, they have their reward.
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth, that
thine alms may be in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward
thee openly.
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray
standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men,
verily I say unto you, they have their reward.
But when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to
thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions as the heathen do, for they think that they
shall be heard for their much speaking.
Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of
before ye ask him.
After this manner therefore pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever, amen.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their
faces that they may appear unto men to fast.
Verily, I say unto you, they have their reward.
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and wash thy face, that thou appear not
unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret.
And thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where
thieves break through and steal.
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt,
and where thieves do not break through nor steal.
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
The light of the body is the eye.
If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness.
If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness.
How great is that darkness!
No man can serve two masters.
For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and
despise the other.
You cannot serve God and mammon.
Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what
ye shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on.
Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
Behold the fowls of the air.
For they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly fodder
feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?
Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto a stature?
And why take ye thought for raiment?
Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin,
and yet I say unto you, that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one
of these.
Wherefore if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is cast
into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, oh ye little faith?
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith
all shall we be clothed?
For after all these things do the Gentiles seek.
For your heavenly father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall
be added unto you.
Take therefore no thought for the morrow.
For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.